hey guys I'm just live-streaming while
doing my dishes here in my fabulous
kitchen in the southern France this
fabulous kitchen in fabulous apartment
as matter of fact ah thought was just
crossing my mind in starting up this
live stream in my kitchen actually got a
live stream while I'm yeah there you can
see the dishes in the sink I was
reminded of a time yes a couple years
ago now when I tuned in to watch hennya
back when hey Nia could still kind of
talk to me in a relaxed way like a
normal human being which she can't
anymore I was kind of reflecting on that
you know the overall tide of activity
and the vegan YouTube demi-monde rises
and falls and of course it rises and
falls on other social media platforms
like I was on tumblr at a time when the
vegan seen within tumblr was really
popping and then died i watch it die and
at the moment I mean there are seasonal
considerations as well generally YouTube
dies down during all school holidays I
think that's because a lot of my own
viewers are parents so they're busy
taking their kids on vacation there are
there are seasonal variations but it's
also true that in an absolute sense
right now
you know the scene is quieted down there
was a time when live-streaming if I
popped on hashtag vegan there'd be three
or four other people live streaming at
the same time talking about veganism or
you know talking about their lives but
they happened to be vegan whatever it
was when there was a lot of action
Facebook you know YouTube and of course
bouncing off other you know blogging
platforms Twitter or whatever and right
now right now it's it's quieted down but
what I was reflecting on now and just
started a live stream from my kitchen
and being reminded of this time when I
saw any live streaming you know what
doesn't calm down is the sense of of
paranoia that this medium seems to
instill in people and you know Hania is
not the only one there are a lot of
people who are afraid to talk to me and
it's not because they're afraid of me
you know
I think they probably are people who
care more about and have their feelings
hurt more by YouTube comments by you
know kind of anonymous internet comments
than I do because I don't get my feeling
so for them they're probably people who
care more about courting public opinion
who care more about trying to capture
the hearts and minds their audience you
know trying to please the crowd in short
and that's understandable that's how you
make your money you know for me it isn't
you know but there are all kinds of
reasons why that's understandable
including the vulnerability to anonymous
comments everything across the board but
certainly in these last couple of months
as you know there's been a kind of a
tide that has lowered and you see pretty
much old boats coming down with it
across the whole scene you know one of
the reasons for the tide lowering for
the level of interest and engagement
lowering is that what we're doing now is
not new anymore and for the audience
when this was new for a lot of people in
the audience that were hearing these
issues being discussed for the first
time even if they'd been vegan for years
or even if they've involved in animal
rights activism with another kind for
many years a lot of them you know I got
messages like that directly myself there
were having conversations you know face
face to the people and they'd say wow
I'd never heard someone debating these
issues title with that issue or you know
all the different real talk that had to
pour out here including you know someone
like Kenya talking about her own
frustrations with going to street
protests or you know all the all the
issues surrounding being vegan once you
get past the basic questions of how do I
get enough b12 I don't get enough
protein you know all the questions about
the meaning of life and the meaning of
the movement a lot of that was new and
it's not new anymore it's not new for
the audience and it's not new for the
broadcasters it's not new for people
like me right but it's sad for me to
reflect that there's a sense of
vulnerability that's always new and it's
a vulnerability that a lot of people
exhibit as a sort of paranoia
[Music]
you know look good this way I'd be
interested in having anyone on my
channel talk to me
who's interested in making a positive
difference in veganism in the next five
years I was talking to a guy couple
weeks ago now on live stream and I said
to him we were having a really address
discussion about real world activism
Street activism city hall activism legal
activist and political activism and also
some of the YouTube digital demo stuff I
said to him look you know can I ask your
permission to record this now and put it
on YouTube or can I have you back as a
guest in future can we do something for
you too you know and his reply was no he
was afraid of being taken to court he
was afraid of legal consequences and
that fear you know it's not totally
baseless you know I kind of know where
he's coming from and there are other
people who say they can't risk their
professional reputation and there are
other people who can't even articulate
why it is that they feel that they just
can't I said many times and I said a
long time ago
here on YouTube honesty is the only
currency we've got if we can't come on
camera and keep it real and talk about
what's weighing down our hearts what can
we do and why are we here you know I
mean and I mean sure I wish you know I
wish Danny and I were still in speaking
terms I have no idea what she's capable
of next five years for veganism but to
stick with her as an example I wish I
had a growing network of highly
motivated highly competent people
whether they're pursuing social media
stardom or lobbying City Hall or doing
street protests or whatever you know I
was certainly hoping I was really hoping
my patreon would become a crossroads for
people who want to see and create a
positive change
I was certainly hoping my youtube
channel was for me personally spark a
lot of those kinds of relationships now
in reality I have two three maybe four
or five relationships like that that
have come early Jo which I really do
value which are pressures me and some of
those people you know they're so you
know someone like Maude vegan someone
like Steven fight people have done
YouTube videos with talking about being
in politics and anyone at watch those
videos can tell we're thinking about
what kind of positive change we can make
have an excuse that's great
but their numbers are very finite and
they can probably be be counted on on
one hand and as I say my point in this
video is look on the one hand of course
talent is scarce do you work in any
field talent is scarce but it's a shame
that so much of the talent we've got
remains isolated in these mutually
invidious scenarios because of a kind of
fear whether you think of that as a
paranoia or not however you imagine that
a kind of vulnerability that's always
new even as we now enter this era in
which this message is not new and and we
see that the audience numbers we see
that the audience behavior what I'm
talking about my own life I never run
out of material always got new stuff to
talk about if it's what I'm doing this
month last month next month course if
it's about vlogging auto auto
biographical material is new but there's
no doubt you know there was a time when
I talked about vivisection on this
channel I had a bunch of old vegans
talking to me saying it never heard the
word vivisection before which is amazing
to me and they never thought about those
issues that never thought about
scientific research and the issues with
animals rotation sided resume
fascinating it nourish me of that
well lightning doesn't strike twice
my small audience who got to know me
because I opened up a lot of those
issues for discussion for the first time
in though in their own lives of course
in a library in an archive somewhere all
those issues have been discussed and
debated before but they were new on this
medium that were new for this audience
in the internet and they were new for
people who have largely discovered
veganism within the last 10 years most
of us in the last five years and people
who have started to think about veganism
as a political movement seeking broad
social change not just as a diet not
just as a form of personal purity
because vegetarianism has been around
forever but whether you know
vegetarianism via Hinduism or Buddhism
or some other or field the vast majority
of vegetarians I was just reading the
other day mr. Rogers the TV actor he was
a vegetarian but he wasn't promoting or
supporting vegetarian as he wasn't
preaching it he wasn't pursuing a social
movement it was just for his own
personal private ethics his own sense of
purity or what have you that's very
different it's really for most of us
it's just the last few years then it
last ten years let's say that veganism
is taking on this horizon where it's not
just about you and it's not just about
me and it's not just about the diet
it's about ecology it's about the
animals it's about the future of the
planet
it's about our ethics and politics on a
social level on a nice level right but
the excitement we had in the digital
demi-monde talking about activism talk
about aspersion to the future that was
because for so many of us as
broadcasters as aspiring activists and
in the audience it was new a lot of us
you know if you grew up watching normal
TV and not YouTube you had you know a
couple years ago maybe you'd never seen
you know videos of street activists
getting into dialogues with strangers
about why do you eat meat what do you
think about factory conditions
slaughterhouse conditions here hell
we've all seen it a hundred times you
know maybe when you first came on
YouTube you'd never seen the videos of
the actual slaughterhouse conditions
themselves maybe you'd never seen the
horrifying videos of weird as wool come
from how does the woman store there was
a time for all of us when that was new
because it wasn't on broadcast
television and it was here on YouTube
and that created a unique one-time
impetus for you know this medium to be
something exciting and different in our
lives and to spark conversations between
different broadcasters between different
channels and that is good gone it's
never to come back
lightning doesn't strike twice and as I
say it's a shame that the sense of
alienation isolation and frankly to some
extent you know this feeling of paranoia
I I guess because ultimately people are
afraid they'll be exposed though they're
afraid though they'll have their
feelings hurt by mean comments or you
know I don't know they'll be defamed or
slander somehow somehow all this will
come up or they'll be dragged into court
as I mentioned an example it's a shame
to see a digital platform that should be
a crossroads that should bring people
together that should spark bigger and
better and broader organization instead
keeping people isolated in that way and
for that reason